---
title: "Towards sustainable development: The spatial spillover effects of low-carbon city pilot policy on urban energy transition"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/22023-Social Capital
# excerpt: 'This paper is about the number 3. The number 4 is left for future work.'
date: 2023
venue: 'The Chinese Economy'
paperurl: 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/paper3.pdf'
citation: 'Xiuli Liu, Xinchi Jia, Lyu Ke, Pibin Guo, Jun Shen, and GuofengWang. (2023). Towards sustainable development: The spatial spillover effects of low-carbon city pilot policy on urban energy transition. Unpublished
'
---
## Abstract

Abstract: The Low-Carbon City Pilot (LCCP) policy is a significant project in energy transition which is a critical global task due to concerns about energy security and climate change. However, few studies have focused on the spatial spillover effects and mechanism role of LCCP policy on energy transition. To address this gap, this study employs a sample dataset comprising 277 cities from 2006 to 2020 and adopts Spatial Difference-In-Differences (SDID) model to explore this key spatial spillover effect exhibited by pilot cities. In addition, this study establishes a spatial mediation effect model to analyze the mechanism from the perspective of factor agglomeration and further analyze the heterogeneity in different kinds of cities. Empirical evidence reveals that the LCCP policy promotes urban energy transition in the region, but generates negative spatial spillovers to neighboring cities, a result that remains robust even under rigorous testing. Mechanism analysis identifies three pathways for urban energy transition promotion: capital aggregation, technology aggregation, and industry aggregation. Heterogeneity analysis shows the LCCP policy has different effects in eastern cities, resource-based cities, as well as first and second-tier cities. The research can offer valuable policy recommendations aimed at comprehensively
promoting the progress of low-carbon cities and accelerating the ongoing energy transition process worldwide.




